---
title: Co-Operative Tanking Guide
permalink: /Co-Operative_Tanking_Guide
layout: page
author: Olson
date: 2011-01-25T05:52:38Z
category: 
---
This guide was written by
[=HighXplosive=](http://www.redorchestragame.com/forum/member.php?u=8291)
at the Red Orchestra Forums. There is also [a thread in the Darkest Hour
forums](http://forums.darkesthourgame.com/viewtopic.php?f=4&t=5095) with
more info.

-----

## Introduction to Co-Operative Tanking

Red Orchestra is realism focused World War II First-Person-Shooter. One
of the key elements of WW2 was tank warfare and I think Red Orchestra
does a beautiful job in simulating the conditions and problems that tank
crews encountered in reality.

One of those most prominent problems is communication. However, while in
reality there is a chain of command, authority and established channels
of communication, in a game there are only players and their own
self-discipline. That is to say, to co-operatively tank with a lacking
approach to the frustrations that can occur due to carelessness is to
cause problems (consider the many rants about stupid drivers).

Another problem that has to be overcome is trust. A commander must trust
his driver, who must trust the gunner (if present) and gunner must trust
the commander (due to each and everyone performing a select function and
each and everyone having a limited view) and so forth.

Therefore, before you even consider co-operative tanking, you must be
self-discplined, good at communicating and trustworthy.

I illustrate some problems that occur if tankers are not of the above:

### Example 1

  - Driver - Moves forward as ordered by the tank commander.
  - Commander - Spots a tank on the left flank. Orders a stop.
  - Driver - Stops, but decides its a good idea to angle the tank so as
    to prevent direct armor penetration on the side.
  - Commander - Takes aim through the cannon, aims, fires and watches as
    the gun sights are moved due to the drivers altering of position and
    misses.
  - Event - Enemy tank returns fire and achieves the first hit (which
    can often be a kill).

So that shows, that while your intentions may be good, your effect is
detrimental. Disicipline would denote that the driver does exactly as
told and nothing more.

### Example 2

  - Driver - Moves forward as ordered by tank commander.
  - Commander - Spots a tank on the left flank, Orders a stop.
  - Driver - Stops as ordered.
  - Commander - Takes aim through cannon.
  - Machine Gunner - Says "Move Forward."
  - Driver - Moves forward as ordered, but not by the commander.
  - Commander - Fires and misses.
  - Event - Enemy tank returns fire and achieves the first hit (which
    can often be a kill).

So in this case, the problem is that the gunner had perverted the
communications of the team and caused a problem. Communications are
therefore flawed in this case

### Example 3

  - Driver - Moves forward as ordered by tank commander.
  - Commander - Spots a tank on the left flank, orders a stop.
  - Driver - Continues driving, ignores the commander and believes an
    objective ahead of them is higher priority (point capping).
  - Commander - Cannot aim or fire effectively.
  - Event - Enemy tank returns fire and achieves the first hit (which
    can often be a kill).

So in this case, trust is somewhat in question, as the driver believes
the commanders priorities are not as important as the priorities of the
driver. However, had the driver stopped, they may still be alive to "cap
that point."

And of course, the classic example,

### Example 4

  - Driver - Decides to do whatever the hell he wants.
  - Commander - Can't do anything at all.
  - Machine Gunner - Has fun trying to hit random enemies that pop into
    his FoV (Field of View).
  - Event - Enemy tanks laugh their \*\*\* off, take aim and achieve the
    first hits (which can often be a kill).

I hope you see my point. So please note that for the rest of my document
assumes that you will use its standardised rules and will listen to your
tank commander, etc.

## The Roles Of Individual Tank Crewmen

### Commander

The commander of a tank is de facto eyes and ears of the crew. While
every other crewman will have limited FoV, the commander is the spotter,
main gunner and the tactician of the tank. Responsibilities include:

  - Spotting enemies.  
    For example, identifying the type of enemy tanks (so to decided how
    to defeat it, or whether it is too strong to defeat), weakpoints,
    etc.

<!-- end list -->

  - Planning the tanks route.  
    For example, planning flanking maneuvers, concealed movement and
    cover from fire, deciding ideal stationary locations and choosing
    objectives.

<!-- end list -->

  - Executing on the spot tactics.  
    For example, tank angle maneuvers, moving in and out of cover,
    prioritising enemies, knowing when to retreat.

<!-- end list -->

  - Self-preservation  
    For example, do not expose yourself in combat so as to render the
    tank commanderless or jump out the tank "for a better look".

<!-- end list -->

  - Main Gunnery of the tank.  
    For example, ranging of targets, selection of round types,
    identifying weak points of enemy tanks, use of the machine gun,
    aiming, shooting and ultimately destroying the enemy.

### Driver

The driver is master of the primary movement of a tank. The driver,
while controlling a lesser degree of factors, can often determine the
success or failure of any tank crew by his actions. Responsibilities
include:

  - Spotting enemies in FoV.  
    For example, alerting the commander to the location of an enemy
    (usually the front due to FoV).

<!-- end list -->

  - Executing commanders movement orders (precisely).  
    For example, moving only when ordered, as ordered and refraining
    from any slight changes to that order.

<!-- end list -->

  - Executing on the spot movement decisions (such as effectively and
    intelligently negotiating terrain).  
    For example, moving around a terrain object effectively so as not to
    snag on it, negotiating terrain objects as close as possible to the
    original order, movement with awareness of concealment and cover
    from fire.

<!-- end list -->

  - Self-preservation.

### Machine Gunner

The machine gunner supplements a tanks firepower against infantry. While
not all tanks have a machine gunner, when they do, the gunner can be a
potent weapon to prevent anti-tank operatons by the enemy, and another
set of eyes. Responsibilities include:

  - Spotting enemies in FoV.
  - Machine Gunnery.  
    Quite simply, shooting infantry targets.
  - Executing on the spot target prioritising (such as anti-tank
    infantry first before non-threatening enemies).
  - Holding fire when ordered.  
    For example, not spraying the machine gun (ineffectively) at armored
    targets only to attract unecessary attention....

## Built-In Voice Communication

Now to the bulk of this document. In order establish good and effective
co-operative tanking communication, I decided to provide a set of
standardised rules to the voice coms in order promote and show that
effective tanking can be done with the voice coms.

As far as I'm concerned, these are the only (or only ones of importance)
voice commands to be used.

  - "Move Forward."
  - "Stop."
  - "Move Back."
  - "Go Left."
  - "Go Right."
  - "Forward 5 Metres."
  - "Back 5 Metres."
  - "Turn Left A Little."
  - "Turn Right A Little."
  - "Enemy in Front."
  - "Enemy Left Flank."
  - "Enemy Right Flank."
  - "Enemy Behind US."
  - "Enemy Infantry Close."
  - "Loaded."
  - "Acknowledged."
  - "Negative."
  - "We're Burning\!"
  - "Get Out\!"

I will take each in turn and try to cover them in as much depth as
possible. They are split into 3 sections.

### Commands

Tactical Note: Since all commands are given by the commander, the crew
should take trust in the commander and his orders. Every order has a
reason, but a reason can not always be given. Have faith.

#### "Move Forward."

Crewman Usage - Commander

Accelerate the tank up to (but necessarily) full speed without turning
left or right at all. If an obstacle presents itself to a direct forward
course, negotiate it as well as possible and as close as possible to the
original forward course. When possible, retain that forward movement as
if the obstacle never existed. Anything that is traversible is not
considered an obstacle (such as a hill, or shallow water). If the tank
is sitting on a hill, and cannot accelerate up it, negotiate it as well
as possible as ift he hill was an obstacle.

#### "Stop."

Crewman Usage - Commander

With regards to movement:

Decelerate the tank till it stops moving in any direction completely. Do
so without altering the direction the tank is facing. If the tank is
accelerating at full or a high speed, stop as soon as possible, but if
the stopping position is exposed or seems "wrong", do not alter it.
Quite simply, just STOP. This command should not be considered a chained
command (i.e. if you are told to move forward then go left, cease those
orders and stop immediately as best as possible) and it overides
absolutely every other command. The stop command may be used as much as
possible to affirm an order as completed.

Possible meaning if the machine gunner is firing:

Cease fire.

#### "Move Back."

Crewman Usage - Commander

Accelerate, in reverse, the tank up to (but not necessarily) full
reverse speed without turning left or right. If an obstacle should
present itself to a direct reversing movement, stop the tank and
consider the order completed (await further instructions). Anything that
is traversible is not considered an obstacle. If the tank is sitting on
a hill, and cannot reverse up it, negotiate it as well as possible as
ift he hill was an obstacle. Never turn the tank more than 90 degrees in
any direction from the starting position while doing this (as you may
expose weak points to enemy fire).

#### "Go Left."

Crewman Usage - Commander

While continuing any existing actions, such as moving forward, turn the
tank 90 degrees left and consider this your new "current course" (be it
forward or backward) and apply the same negotiation rules. Do not
deliberately attempt to follow unatural terrain (such as roads) when
executing this order (as this may expose the tank). While moving
backwards, this order means hit the turn left control (therefore you
will end up facing right). It does not mean reverse the tank to face
left.

#### "Go Right"

Crewman Usage - Commander

While continuing any existing actions, such as moving forward, turn the
tank 90 degrees right and consider this your new "current course" (be it
forward or backward) and apply the same negotiation rules. Do not
deliberately attempt to follow unatural terrain (such as roads) when
executing this order (as this may expose the tank). While moving
backwards, this order means hit the turn right control (therefore you
will end up facing right). It does not mean reverse the tank to face
right.

#### "Forward 5 Metres."

Crewman Usage - Commander

Overides any existing orders (such as moving forward). Move the tank
forward from the starting position 5 metres (for estimation purposes, 5
metres will be regarded as 5 infantry soldiers lying prone in the single
file head to toe). The starting position is considered the moment
previous actions are ceased (for example, when moving backward, the
moment the tank begins moving forward is considered the starting
position and when moving forward, the moment the order is given, is
considered the starting position. Apply negotiation rules (even if you
end up around the side of an obstacle).

#### "Back 5 Metres."

Overides any existing orders (such as moving forward). Move the tank
backward from the starting positon 5 metres (for estimation purposes, 5
metres will be regarded as 5 infantry soldiers lying prone in the single
file head to toe). The starting position is considered the moment
previous actions are ceased (for example, when moving backward, the
moment the tank begins moving forward is considered the starting
position and when moving forward, the moment the order is given, is
considered the starting position. Should an obstacle stop the tank,
consider the order completed.

#### "Turn Left A Little."

Crewman Usage - Commander

While continuing any existing actions, such as moving forward, turn the
tank 45 degrees left and consider this your new "current course" (be it
forward or backward) and apply the same negotiation rules. When ordered
when the tank is stationary, remain as close as to the starting position
as possible, and turn the tank 45 degrees left. If an obstacle prevents
the turning, consider the order completed when turned as left as
possible.

#### "Turn Right A Little."

Crewman Usage - Commander

While continuing any existing actions, such as moving forward, turn the
tank 45 degrees right and consider this your new "current course" (be it
forward or backward) and apply the same negotiation rules. When ordered
when the tank is stationary, remain as close as to the starting position
as possible, and turn the tank 45 degrees right. If an obstacle prevents
the turning, consider the order completed when turned as right as
possible.

### Alerts

Tactical Note: All alerts should be followed immediately by
self-preservation tactics, even if it limits the view of every crew
member. In some cases, e.g. against infantry, evasive maneuvers maybe
used. All in all, it is up to the commander.

#### "Enemy In Front."

Crewman Usage - All

There is an enemy tank in front of the tank, with the front of the tank
being considered a 90 degrees "fan" or "FoV" from the centre point of
the tank facing towards the tanks front. The enemy tanks elevation may
be higher or lower. Infantry is not considered for this alert. If the
enemy is sitting on the estimated cut off point between the Right and
Left FoV of the tank, use the Right or Left alert instead. The enemy
tank may be a significant distance ahead. If said, this alert does not
mean "Stop" but maybe followed by it.

#### "Enemy Left Flank."

Crewman Usage - All

The enemy is left of the tank, with the left being considered being a 90
degrees "fan" or "FoV" from the centre point of the tank facing towards
the tanks left. The enemy tanks elevation may be higher or lower.
Infantry is not considered for this alert. If the enemy is sitting on
the estimated cut off point between Front/Back and Left FoV of the tank,
use this command instead. The enemy tank may be a significant distance
ahead. If said, this alert does not mean "Stop" but maybe followed by
it.

#### "Enemy Right Flank."

Crewman Usage - All

The enemy is right of the tank, with the right being considered being a
90 degrees "fan" or "FoV" from the centre point of the tank facing
towards the tanks right. The enemy tanks elevation may be higher or
lower. Infantry is not considered for this alert. If the enemy is
sitting on the estimated cut off point between Front/Back and Right FoV
of the tank, use this command instead. The enemy tank may be a
significant distance ahead. If said, this alert does not mean "Stop" but
maybe followed by it.

#### "Enemy Behind Us."

Crewman Usage - All

Standarised Meaning -

The enemy is behind the tank, with the rear being considered being a 90
degrees "fan" or "FoV" from the centre point of the tank facing towards
the tanks rear. The enemy tanks elevation may be higher or lower.
Infantry is not considered for this alert. If the enemy is sitting on
the estimated cut off point between the Right or Left FoV of the tank,
use the Right or Left alert instead. The enemy tank may be a significant
distance ahead. If said, this alert does not mean "Stop" but may be
followed by it.

#### "Enemy Infantry Close."

Crewman Usage - All

There is or maybe enemy infantry close by. The direction may be
determined by who says it. The alert may be used in response to light
arms fire or anti-tank fire used against the tank, in which case, the
direction by the direction of the fire itself. In general, it is best to
limit the meaning and usage to only real threats (such as anti-tank fire
and demolition charges, perhaps grenade fire by lighter tanks). However,
in all cases, self-preservation is even more essential when infantry is
nearby, so if any crewman are exposed, alert them.

#### "Loaded."

Crewman Usage - Commander, Machine Gunner.

The next round or magazine has been loaded in one of my weapons. This
includes changing of rounds for the main gun.

### Miscellaneous

Tactical Note: Miscellaneous voice commands are special commands. They,
like above, all have specific uses.

#### "Acknowledged."

Crewman Usage - All

Quite simply, yes. By the commander, it can mean confirmation of a enemy
tank kill (usually obvious by the kill text of the game). Use as often
as possible in order to affirm the confidence of the entire crew that
your still in the team.

#### "Negative."

Crewman Usage - All

I cannot execute that order due to variables beyond my control. Extreme
obstacles may be an example, such as spawn areas or the edge of the map.
Extreme variables may also be a reason, such as tank tracks being
destroyed, the engine damaged beyond use. Never use because you disagree
with an action.

#### "We're Burning\!"

Crewman Usage - All

One of the key components of this tank has been damaged, such as engine
or tracks. May also mean the tank is in "red" status. May also mean
'this tank is mashed, we may need to get another one soon.'

#### "Get Out\!"

Crewman Usage - All

Abandon the tank and regroup. May also mean 'We're mashed, get the hell
out of this tank\!' or 'The next hit is going to kill us.' Usually
followed by a sudden explosion and a respawn.

## Tactics

Tank warfare is a very complex issue, much like infantry warfare. There
are a multitude of factors to consider even in the most simple direct 1
on 1 tank engagement. In order to split this issue up into individual
understandable elements of tank warfare, this topic will be covered in
the following groups:

  - Gunnery & Firepower
  - Armor & Positioning
  - Mobility & Movement
  - Infantry & Artillery

### Gunnery & Firepower

Every tank is an armored platform, armed with several weapons to cause
destruction to the enemy. All the tanks in Red Orchestra have a main gun
and usually a turret mounted machine gun (depending on the tank). Some
also have a frontside machine gun.

#### Main Gun

The main gun is the primary weapon of any tank and comes in different
varieties depending on the tank in question. For example, the Russian
T-60 light tank uses a 20mm automatic cannon as the main gun while most
other tanks utilise large caliber main guns, such as the German
Panzerkampfwagen V G "Panther" which uses a 75mm gun, capable of
defeating the heaviest Russian tanks.

For all their inherent problems, bonuses and employments, there are
common rules that should be applied to using each main gun.

##### Considering Gravity

As with any gun, be they firearms, tank guns or artillery batteries, as
the projectile (be it a shell or bullet) travels out of the weapon it
was fired from, as the distance from the weapon increases, the
projectile will begin to lose height dramatically due to gravity,
friction and so forth playing on it. Given that tank shells are steel
canisters of death made to penetrate and destroy enemy tin cans of
death, they are hardly aerodynnamic and look nothing like a plane.

Therefore to hit a target the gunner must consider that as the distance
to the target increases he must compensate by aiming higher or adjusting
his gun sights to fit the range to target. Too much or too little and
you could end up shooting your shell over the enemy or into the ground
short of him. Failing to achieve the first hit means that the enemy can
take the initiative, especially if his first round damages you.

##### Considering Reload Time

Different tanks have different reload times on the main gun. For
example, the Russian IS-2, due to the size of the shell used, had a
painfully slow average reload time of 30 seconds due to the shell having
to be loaded in 2 seperate parts (projectile and charge) - painful
denoting that the reload time is a huge window of oppurtunity for the
enemy to fire at you, flank you or take cover.

That said, some artillery pieces such as the Sturmgeschutz III "StuG",
have considerably faster reload times than (average 12 seconds for the
StuG). Note: The StuG is classed as an Assault Gun by Red Orchestra, but
is still considered a tank in this context.

Therefore, it is important to consider the reload time on the main gun
and to pick the target, the angle of fire and the shot wisely. In some
cases, if your not careful, the enemy can get 3 shots off for every shot
you fire\! As a general rule of thumb, as the caliber and of your main
gun increases, so does the reload time.

##### Considering Firepower

Sometimes the main gun of your tank can destroy an enemy tank in a
single hit. Sometimes it is incapable of defeating the enemy tank from
your selected firing position. This can be due to a number of factors,
but in general, it is because of the armor of the target is great enough
that your tanks firepower cannot penetrate (or damage) the armor.

The strongest armor of a tank is the front, followed by the side armor,
then finally rear armor. It can often take 2 hits to destroy a tank from
the side and front, but only 1 hit from the rear. With that in mind, the
general rule is as the heavier the enemy armor becomes and the lesser
the caliber of your main gun becomes, the more you should consider
flanking or outmaneuvering the enemy before firing. Fortunately, lighter
caliber tanks are also more maneuverable and fire faster than than
heavier tanks usually.

#### Machine Gun

Most main guns are armed with secondary machine gun to supplement
firepower against infantry. There may also be a third machine gun in the
front of the hull. Like the main gun, the machine gun also suffers from
bullet drop, so the machine gunner may also have to angle to hit long
range targets. This problem is slightly prevented by the tracers from
the machine gun. Also, because the machine is a fully automatic weapon,
it is "easier" to adjust the aim.

There is also a reload time on the machine gun. The reload time is the
time taken to load another belt/magazine into the machine gun, obviously
much shorter than that of a main gun, but a reload time nonetheless, and
a window of oppurtunity for anti-tank infantry to close in.

The firepower of the machine is extremely limited in the context of
tanks. The only things it can defeat are infantry. However, that said,
it is excellent for killing exposed infantry who are in vehicles (such
as commanders, drivers, etc), provided it does not expose the tank or
draw too much attention. In general, a dead target can't give much
attention, so it is wise to go by that standard of gunnery.

**\[To be continued\]**

\-End of Document-

