---
title: Hardware Requirements (Under Construction)
permalink: /Hardware_Requirements_(Under_Construction)
layout: page
author: 
date: 2008-06-17T01:08:59Z
category: 
---
Before we dig into this guide on having a performance & quality
comparison steps must be taken to ensure the knowledge of your current
configuration. To gather all of the necessary information please visit
the following sites and follow the directions corresponding to each
step.

If you wish to speak to a Medical Officer about any of the following
information or would like information regarding system performance
issues/upgrades please save all information generated by the tests and
steps outlined in this document. Information on saving such data will be
posted with each step.

## System Requirements

These are the official system requirements of Red Orchestra: Ostfront
41-45 courtesy of [Steam](http://steampowered.com).

  - **Minimum:** CPU: 1.2 GHZ or Equivalent, 512 MB RAM, Video Card: 64
    MB DX9 Compliant, 2 GB free hard drive space, DX 8.1 Compatible
    Audio, Windows 2000/XP
  - **Recommended:** CPU: 2.4 GHZ, Video Card: 128 MB DX9 Compliant with
    PS 2.0 support, Sound Card: Eax Compatible

## Compatibility Test

This test is designed to scan the essentials of a computer to determine
whether or not it is capable of handling the minimum and recommended
requirements of Red Orchestra: Ostfront 41-45.

1.  Visit [System Requirements
    Lab](http://www.systemrequirementslab.com/referrer/srtest) and
    follow the instructions there for the diagnoses.

`  * If your machine is listed as `**`incapable`**` of running at `**`minimum`**` requirements please continue to`  
`    read.`  
  
`  * If your machine is listed as `**`capable`**` of running at `**`minimum`**` requirements please continue to read.`  
  
`  * If your machine is listed as `**`capable`**` of running at `**`recommended`**` requirements you may skip this`  
`    entirely.`

*To save information on the Can YOU Run It? analysis page for further
technical support drag and highlight the areas your computer failed,
right click and press copy. Then make a notepad document by right
clicking on the desktop, highlight the new menu and click Text Document.
In your newly created document right click and press paste, making sure
to follow the first procedure until all failed categories are in the
notepad file. Then save your text document by clicking the file menu and
pressing save. Name the document srl.txt so you know which document
corresponds to each step in this document.*

### Current System Analysis

This next set of tests will display your current hardware configuration
in detail, along with information relating to possible upgrades for your
setup.

  - Visit [eSupport](http://scan.esupport.com/scan.php) for a complete
    bios scan and more importantly in this case the motherboard
    model/version and maximum RAM capacity.

`  * If your computer failed either the minimum or recommended requirements and was targeted as `  
`    not having enough RAM or CPU speed, and the analysis shows your motherboard is incapable of `  
`    handling more then you should consider the possibility of purchasing a new computer.  For more `  
`    information on that please contact as Medical Officer, and we will do our best to provide you `  
`    with information regarding a machine that can facilitate your budget.`  
  
`  * If your computer failed either the minimum or recommended requirements and was targeted as not`  
`    having enough RAM or CPU speed, yet the analysis shows your motherboard is capable of `  
`    handling more memory then you should look into purchasing a `[`RAM`` 
 ``upgrade`](RAM_upgrade "wikilink")`.  If you have passed`  
`    the minimum for RAM but not CPU speed please speak to one of our Medical Officers for upgrade`  
`    possibilities.`  
  
`  * If your computer passed the minimum but not the recommended requirements and was targeted as not`  
`    having enough RAM or CPU speed, yet the analysis shows your motherboard is capable of `  
`    handling more memory then you should look into purchasing a `[`RAM`` 
 ``upgrade`](RAM_upgrade "wikilink")`.  If you have passed`  
`    the minimum for RAM but not CPU speed please speak to one of our Medical Officers for upgrade`  
`    possibilities.`

*To save information on the eSupport analysis page for further technical
support drag and highlight from BIOS Type to Memory Config, right click
and press copy. Then make a notepad document by right clicking on the
desktop, highlight the new menu and click Text Document. In your newly
created document right click and press paste. Then save your text
document by clicking the file menu and pressing save. Name the document
esupport.txt so you know which document corresponds to each step in this
document.*

  - Click the **Start Menu** and press **Run**. Then type: **dxdiag**
    This will start your video analysis. In here you will be able to
    find information on your display adapter (video card) by clicking
    the Display tab at the top.

`  * If your computer failed the minimum or recommended video requirements please save your DirectX`  
`    scan and speak with a Medical Officer about a potential upgrade for your computer.`

*To save this scan press Save All Information and it will save a
detailed DxDiag.txt file (including a full rundown of your video
properties) to your desktop (or location of your choice).*

  - If your computer failed in any areas other than CPU/CPU Speed,
    Memory and Video please speak with a member of the Medical Office.

### Medical Office Assistance

To speak with a Medical Officer you can visit the [29th
Forums](http://www.29th.org/forums/) and post your issue in the [Darkest
Hour Issues](http://www.29th.org/forums/index.php?board=109.0) Forum or
PM the Medical Team via the [Staff
List](http://www.29th.org/forums/index.php?action=staff) in the forum
navigation menu.

## Performance & Quality

This section is here to go into detail about what system upgrades could
give you a boost in game performance. There is a wide assortment of
computer hardware available on the market and being unsure of what to
purchase could make choosing a video card, ram, cpu, motherboard, etc.
very difficult. So if you would like a rundown of what to expect out of
a new system or even just a simple upgrade please continue to read.

I've narrowed it down to the 3 core upgrades to make RO look and feel
better. I have left motherboards and power supplies out of this list as
they are much more complicated, but please consult with a Medical
Technician before purchasing any upgrades as your current motherboard
and power supply may not be able to support it.

### Computer Memory (RAM)

RAM can come in various formats for consumers. Assuming that on average
the 29th ID has your average gamer, with no need of the most state of
the art equipment we can focus on the DDR2 SDRAM memory group. If your
motherboard can handle more RAM (as analyzed earlier in this document)
the next step is to figure out which RAM your computer can handle.

You can find this out by downloading this small ZIP file. Extract the
files to any location by clicking the extract button and selecting a
path to place them. I recommend making a folder called CPUID on your
desktop. From there run the program and click on the memory tab. You
will see 3 crucial bits of data:

  - Type
  - Size
  - Frequency

You now know how much memory you currently have, in conjuction with
previous tests you will know how much memory you can handle in your
system and what type and frequency RAM you will need to purchase.

### Central Processing Unit (CPU)

### Display Adaptor (Video Card)

