---
title: Patch 1.1
permalink: /Patch_1.1
layout: page
author: Wilson
date: 2008-07-21T20:21:33Z
category: 
---
On 19 July 2008, the *Darkest Hour* development team released beta
version 1.1. This patch addresses a swathe of bugs reported after
version 1.0 was released. It also includes a number of new maps, some
new features and many changes to existing weapons and systems.

## Installation Guide

First, make sure Darkest Hour is already installed. If it is not
installed, simply use the original [Installation
Guide](Installation_Guide "wikilink") to get the full version that
includes this patch.

  - **If you already installed [Patch 1b](Patch_1b "wikilink")**,
    Download and Install [v1.0b-1.1
    Upgrade](http://www.moddb.com/mods/darkest-hour-normandy-1944/downloads/darkest-hour-upgrade-from-v10b-to-v11)
  - **If you *didn't* already install [Patch 1b](Patch_1b "wikilink")**,
    use the original [Installation Guide](Installation_Guide "wikilink")
    to get the full version that includes this patch

\_\_NOTOC\_\_

## New Maps

### Foy

The incredibly popular custom map by DarkLight mapper SchutzeSepp is now
official\!

Elements of the 101st Airborne have advanced to the edge of the Bois
Jacques forest on the outskirts of the town of Foy. Easy Company, 2nd
battalion, 506th Parachute Infantry Regiment, and Item Company, 3rd
Battalion, 506th Parachute Infantry Regiment of the 101st Airborne lead
the Assault into the town of Foy at 0900 on 13January1945. Waiting for
them however are the Pionier-Abteilung 26 (26th Volksgrenadier Engineer
Battalion), a number of Anti-Tank guns from the Panzer-Jäger-Abteilung
26 (26th Volksgrenadier Anti-Tank Battalion) and a Sturmgeschütz III
(StuG III) from the 244th Assault Gun Brigade. The fighting will be
vicious and bloody...

Foy introduces a novel method of "selectable spawns", enabling players
to choose their spawn point and more effectively attack or defend where
it's needed most. This map is also based on satellite data and
photographs of Foy and the surrounding areas, in order to make it as
accurate as possible.

### St Fromond

This map features a new approach to battles. It consists of 2 seperated
zones, with fighting occurring simultaneously in both, and the outcome
of the skirmish in one zone has a drastic impact on the battle raging in
the other.

The Allies must Secure the town of St Fromond and the vital bridge
accross the Vire River, but constant artillery is falling onto the
bridge area making it almost impossible for the bridge to be captured
and repaired.

A small squad of Allied tank crew are sent to silence these guns in the
secondary zone in order to stop the shelling on the town. Once this
objective is complete, the artillery barrages will cease on the main
zone and the tank crew can then spawn into the main battle, where tanks
will become available to assist in the attack.

Axis artillery crew and officers attempt hold the guns in the secondary
zone. They must hold off the attack by the tankers to enable the
artillery to continue shelling the town. If they fail to hold the guns,
they will then spawn into the main battle to help defend the final
objectives.

### Hurtgenwald

One of the more Popular Custom Maps out for Darkesthour at the moment.
Allies have to advance through a forest and capture the objectives, then
move out and capture the Pak bunkers to complete the map.

### Merville Manor

A follow on map from Merville Battery. After securing the gun
emplacements, the night has passed without incident for the British
paratroopers. With the break of dawn however, the Germans counterattack
and the Allies must drive them back by pushing further into enemy
territory. From the compound's rear gate, they must fight their way to
the nearby manor house and once there, setup a base of fire to repel the
advancing Axis forces.

### Le Fosse

A small infantry only map, the Allies hold a hill with useable mortars
situated at its peak. These mortars can be used to rain death down upon
the advancing Germans. The Axis forces must capture a small cottage and
a downed Stuka, before mounting a final assault on the hilltop Battery
to take the mortar position and eradicate the Allied prescence in the
area.

## Weapon and System Changes

### Major Changes

  - Bipod on Bren, BAR and FG42 are now deployed with the "Deploy" key,
    rather than the IronSights key to prevent accidental deployment in
    combat. Ironsights key can still be used to undeploy bipod however
  - Bazooka/Panzerschreck/PIAT accuracy increased drastically
  - When switching weapons from the Bazooka/Panzerschreck, any loaded
    rounds are now returned to a players inventory rather than being
    destroyed
  - The Bazooka/Panzerschreck class now starts with 1 initial rocket
  - New weapon sounds for M1 Garand, Colt M1911, and all Allied vehicles
  - Moved the ironsights away from the screen to increase view on the
    following weapons
      - Panzerschreck
      - Bazooka
      - PIAT
      - M1 Garand
      - M1 Carbine
      - Enfield No. 4
      - Enfield No. 2
      - Sten SMG
      - Thompson SMG
      - M3 Greasegun
      - FG42

### Additional Changes

  - BAR/Bren/FG42 can now cancel reloading with the bipod deployed by
    using the undeploy key
  - Players can now resupply BAR/Bren with ammunition in the same way as
    an MG
  - Front sight bar narrowed to provide more accurate aiming on the
    following weapons
      - No. 4 Enfield
      - M1 Garand
      - M1 Carbine
  - 30 Cal MG now has rear sight flipped down when deployed
  - Springfield scope now has a plain crosshair
  - Slightly reduced FG42 recoil while using the bipod
  - Bazooka/Panzerschreck/PIAT now have a much smaller blast radius
  - Bazooka sights are now set 100/200/300 yards, rocket speed and arc
    have changed accordingly
  - Panzerschreck sights are now ranged for 100/150/200 metres, rocket
    speed and arc have changed accordingly
  - PIAT sights are now set to 70/100/130 yards, projectile speed and
    arc have changed accordingly
  - Players can now only resupply AT weapons once
  - Higgins boat speed decreased
  - Higgins boat tweaked to decrease chance of killing players standing
    in it, but who haven't "used" the vehicle
  - Main Menu screen now displays current game version

### Bug Fixes

  - Position 8 in Higgins boat no longer has the same player viewpoint
    as position 7
  - Players no longer fall through the floor when exiting a stationary
    Higgins boat
  - Players attempting to exit the Higgins boat while it is moving no
    longer appear outside the boat
  - Players exiting Higgins boat now appear in correct locations, rather
    than clumped on a single point at the back of the boat (halfway
    through the floor)
  - Players exiting the Higgins boat no longer find themselves facing
    backwards or a random angle. They now always face the front (the
    exit ramp)
  - Players' stance height now correctly adjusted when deploying the
    bipod on the BAR/Bren/FG42
  - Fixed bug where a proned player could deploy a BAR/Bren/FG42, then
    stand up with the bipod still deployed
  - No. 2 revolver firing animation no longer rapidly spins backwards
    after each shot
  - BAR's fire mode switch animation now plays correctly when in iron
    sights
  - BAR no longer plays cocking sound on non-empty reloads (when the
    bolt isn't worked in the animation)
  - Panzerschreck/Bazooka/PIAT weapon image is no longer squashed out of
    proportion on the role selection screen
  - Fixed a glitch where a PIAT could be fired twice without reloading
  - PIAT bomb now appears correctly on the weapon after a reload when
    playing online
  - Players can now only resupply MG weapons once
  - Fixed numerous issues and inconsistencies with Bazooka/Panzerschreck
    resupply
  - US Smoke Grenade sprint animation now starts correctly
  - Fixed Map Voting window so chat box and vote counts display properly
  - Fixed broken "In-Game Chat" (chat log) window
  - Darkest Hour menus now display correctly after a player is
    disconnected from a server instead of stock Red Orchestra ones

## Map Changes

### Omaha Beach Dog Green Sector

  - Removed east side of map to make fighting more concentrated
  - Removed sections of wall around main beach bunkers to allow better
    line of fire for AT guns
  - Added firing slots to main beach bunkers
  - Objectives are now more linear
      - 1\. Seawall Centre -\> 2. WestBeachead -\> 3. Crossroads -\> 4.
        Church
  - West Seawall is now an optional objective
  - Crossroads is now the only recappable objective
  - Axis spawn at west beach-head moved - They now spawn in the
    underground bunker with the rear exit, which has been enlarged
  - Raised AT weapons for better line of fire.

### Cagny

  - Redid Allied spawn areas and added minefields for spawn protection
  - Added resupply points

### Merville Battery

  - Added door to Horsa to prevent people jumping out
  - Added spawn protection to all spawn areas

### Brecourt

Redid Axis spawns - There are now 2 FJ spawns in underground bunker
until Gun 2 is lost, then 4 FJ spawns behind Gun 4. Whact Am Rhein

All colisions removed from Trees - You can now shoot through them and
hide in them. Benouville Bridge

  - Removed Allied anti-tank class. PIATs can still be picked up from
    gliders however
  - Added one Allied sniper

## Known Issues

(This is not a complete list)

  - When using a resupply point with the PIAT selected, the bomb doesn't
    appear in the weapon, even though it's loaded. Changing weapons,
    then choosing the PIAT again will rectify
  - Many weapons missing "weapon empty" animations
  - Third person animations are quite often screwed up
  - Player models have problems with their wrists shooting off at
    right-angles on death
  - Colt 1911 has a see-through slide
  - Allied artillery request is the German one
  - Right-clicking DarkestHour in Steam's "My Games" list and choosing
    "Launch Game" starts Red Orchestra instead of Darkest Hour. This is
    a glitch in TW's code and there is nothing we can do about it. Mare
    Nostrum has the same issue.
  - After reloading the Panzerschreck/Bazooka, the game goes to a semi
    in-and-out of ironsights state. It doesn't do so after a reload
    initiated by a player or ammo dump however. Simply press the
    ironsights key to rectify.

